入境事務處代表發言：


我哋係一眾入境事務處成員，一向以把關香港為己任，維護法治，守護我城。


身為紀律部隊，回想於學堂受訓時，我們必須親身以眼被噴胡椒噴劑，為嘅係時刻警醒自己受襲者的感受，切勿濫用武力。但凡武力之使用，皆以點到即止為原則，是為「遇抗控制」。教官時刻提醒我們穿上制服，處事必須克制，要緊守「一加一武力階梯」，即係話武力必須為逐級增加，而非立即提升到致命武力。


可惜，同屬紀律部隊，警察卻肆意濫權，屢屢犯錯但無人可阻，合法武器，不法使用；休班警更獲派伸縮警棍、胡椒噴劑等武器，有如秘密警察一樣。警隊竄改武力等級，視武力守則如無物。佢地容不下半點批評，隨意非法擅闖民居，濫捕破壞，佢哋所到之處，都會變得一片狼藉。


然而政府及警方隨便一句前線大壓力為由，縱容警暴。林鄭月娥更稱她「除左三萬警察，我甚麼都沒有」。試問警察有什麼克制，有什麼專業? 


「禁蒙面法」生效後，警暴更日益猖狂。市民口罩戴不得，警察卻依舊幪面無證，更口出狂言，叫市民隨便拍片，因為「你影完都唔知我係邊個」。敢問有何公職人員於市民面前辦公，斗膽隱藏容貌、姓名、編號以至委任證？政府更藉此濫用緊急法及禁制令，藉詞保護警察私隱為名，禁止全民選舉查冊以保護警員及其家屬資料，有如特權階級。敝部門亦疑因此仿傚，收緊多年來出生證同結婚證書等公開資料嘅申請要求，必須出示當事人授權，對調查社會大事，顯然係一大阻礙。


執法人員一切權力，均源自法律條文。警察倒果為因，自詡特權階級，多次蔑視同仁，於消防及醫護等救援時刻意阻攔，甚至恐嚇及襲擊佢哋，儼如恐怖份子。


公務員實為人民公僕，是以服務市民為本，正值風雨飄搖之時，自當以身作則，維護法紀，與民同行。

假如政府繼續躲於警暴之後，視政治問題而不見，不斷利用警隊以暴制民，妄圖號召全體公僕與民為敵嘅話，只會令到香港繼續沉淪。對此我們絕不噤聲，亦絕不同流合污。



Speech of representative from Immigration Department:


In the course of induction training, we all experienced the effect of pepper spray on the receiving end. Having gone through this raises our awareness of the power we are applying to others in case the use of force is necessary. The use of force continuum is the golden rule we live by in the course of our duty. Professionalism should always be shown by restraint instead of abusive behaviour.

Sadly, our once prestige police force have been committing endless abusive acts in public view for the past 5 months. The casual and indiscriminate use of weapons have slander the image that they once held. Instead of correcting the wrongs, their management choose to amend whatever relevant guidelines to condone and even encourage such heinous acts. A trend which is made apparent by their daily press con. Interpreting the law however which they feel only to justify their mistakes and wrongful acts. The introduction of anti mask law and various injunction orders only bring more dire results. The rule of law have become rule by law.

The childish and coward act of refusing to properly display their unique identification number and produce the warrant card when requested has progressed to wearing full masks while on duty. The idea that being a civil servant is subject to public scrutiny and expectation seems foreign and totally not applicable, or so they thought.

Carrie Lam, instead of defusing the worsening situation, has done nothing but to encourage them on. By saying “I have no one on my side but the 30,000 police” is only adding fuel to a raging fire. Behaving like a spoiled kid with an overcaring Mother, they treated the other disciplinary forces, even some high government officials, as their underlings instead of equal.

In the current problematic social situation, as servers to our home and country, we must step forth and stand firm to uphold the law justly and fairly. And never turn our backs or become an accomplice to all inequalities and abusiveness no matter what the source is. After all, a man’s true qualities and integrity are what carry them through in time of chaos and turmoil. Please remember, whether we are in uniform or not, we stand with Hongkongers as one.

Independent investigation board and reform of police force is critical and immediate to cure the rift in our society and set it back on its course.

Last but definitely not least, shame to be your brother-in-arm, Hong Kong Police !



